Reserved Gallina keywords: a new approach in the code and an update in the reference manual (#11117)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/language/gallina-specification-language.rst

  The following character sequences are reserved keywords that cannot be
  used as identifiers::

    _ Prop SProp Set Type as at cofix else end fix for forall fun if
    in let match return then where with

>   Note however that plugins may define additional keywords when they

Reviewer: I would not add "however" here.  "In addition" would be good, but having both "In addition" and "additional" in the sentence seems sub par.

Definition of "however": "used to introduce a statement that contrasts with or seems to contradict something that has been said previously".  This is not a contrast or contradiction, right?

(I think it may be excruciating for everyone to frequently discuss wording and style at this level.  We should think about our process for making these adjustments as we improve the doc.)

Author: No worry, I like discussing words. The problem is more that my English is not very good.

Would something like this be better?

"The following character sequences are reserved keywords that cannot be used as identifiers::                                                                               
                                                                                                      
    _ Prop SProp Set Type as at cofix else end fix for forall fun if in let match return then where with

Note that the set of reserved keywords is extensible though: plugins or libraries can introduce new keywords when loaded." be better?

Reviewer: IMHO you could just change "keywords" to "reserved keywords" and "plugins" to "plugins and libraries" in the original sentence.  "the set of" and "though" are not necessary, they don't add anything.  "extensible" doesn't say anything that "introduce" or "define" don't convey here.  "when loaded" is correct English but is perhaps a bit terse.

Reviewer: > No worry, I like discussing words. The problem is more that my English is not very good.

If you like, I'd be happy to point out mistakes or possible improvements from time to time.

  The following character sequences are reserved keywords that cannot be
  used as identifiers::

    _ Axiom CoFixpoint Definition Fixpoint Hypothesis Parameter Prop
    SProp Set Theorem Type Variable as at cofix else
    end fix for forall fun if in let match

>     return then where with

Reviewer: These appear in the list of identifiers used in the definition of Gallina below.  I think you want to remove them from the list of reserved keywords, right?:

Axiom CoFixpoint Definition Fixpoint Hypothesis Parameter Theorem Variable

Author: I'm very sorry. I had done it, then added `Admitted` @ cie in the list then apparently mixed up what I did the interactive rebase.

>   The following identifiers are not reserved keywords but are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The following identifiers are reserved and may not be used as the name of an Ltac function or as part of the definition of a tactic notation.
```

Author: Let's remember your formulation which I suggest we eventually put in the Ltac and Tactic Notations chapters. I prefer to keep to the Gallina chapter independent of what other features provide.

Reviewer 2: I agree with keeping the Gallina chapter independent, but you could still add something to say that their use is restricted at the beginning of sentences, WDYT?

Reviewer: > I prefer to keep to the Gallina chapter independent of what other features provide.

What's the benefit of keeping things independent?  I think one of the major problems with the doc is that information is scattered rather than integrated.  Mentioning the reserved identifiers here at all is inconsistent with keeping the chapters independent.  (Look at our chapter titles--we seem to have a pattern of creating new chapters instead of integrating material in a sensible way.)

Except for optionally-loaded plugins, Coq should be considered a unified product.  Nor sure there be fiefdoms within it and its code (if this is, perhaps, one of your considerations).

Author: I agree that "one of the major problems with the doc is that information is scattered rather than integrated" and this is why I think in particular that the move of the grammar of sorts, binders, records, projections in the Gallina chapter is good.

But I think that a few conceptual distinctions are important. In particular, Gallina, the tactics, and the libraries are well differentiated concepts. Gallina refers to the logic, to the specification language. It is pretty stable and rather well-delimited even if it is regularly extended with new features (universe polymorphism, `SProp`, implicit arguments, negative types, ...). 

Tactics is not only of a different nature. It is also a moving/extensible target. There are Ltac1, Ltac2, Mtac2, vanilla basic bricks, ssreflect basic bricks, and many cool ideas of new tactics defined here and there, e.g. in TLC. We can much better than what we have now and I don't think it is worth to place the existing tactics at the heart of the documentation.

Regarding libraries (and the keywords which come with), we could somehow consider the initial state, and in particular the logical concepts `Logic.v` (`/\`, `\/`, `exists`, `=`, ...), basic datatypes `Datatypes` (`list`, `option`, `sum`, `prod`, `nat`, ...) and basic sets `Specifs` (`{ x | P }`, `{ x & P }`, ...) almost as a stable part of the system. So, this part could be documented much earlier than it is now. There are still a couple of problems to solve though before stabilizing it and placing it at the heart of the documentation: there is no good notation for the injections of a sum, no good notation for the various projections (for instance, I found `proj1_sig` impossible to remember and inconsistent with the name of other projections). So, I would support documenting the initial state much earlier than it is now, but not w/o first proceeding with a few changes to make it unobjectable.

Reviewer 2: To further support Hugo's point, the extensibility of Coq is really one of its strength, as it has allowed people from various horizons to propose alternative solutions to many hard problems. So no, you should not consider Coq a unified product, as that would be counter-productive (and by this, I do not mean that we should not attempt to standardize things, standardization is an important step after creativity has been expressed through many alternative solutions and understanding has progressed).

This is independent of the fact that the current way of adding stuff to the manual has often been by adding new chapters in the Addendum part. This too is wrong: extended pattern-matching, implicit coercions, canonical structures, typeclasses, generalized rewriting, parallel proof processing, polymorphism, SProp, and even Program, should not be documented as independent chapters because they are not independent extensions.

Reviewer: Let me say what I'd do more simply:  If there's no way for a user to avoid having some keyword defined (e.g. it's used in the syntax of some always-loaded tactic) I would include it in a the general section on grammars (which happens to be in the Gallina chapter for now, but probably belongs elsewhere).  That makes it easy to find those without looking at multiple pages in the manual.  If and when we change the code in some future release so that's no longer the case, then at that time we should update the documentation to reflect that.  I think the fact that Gallina is more mature/stable than `Ltac1`, ... doesn't really matter--it's whether it's user configurable.  It think it's fine to repeat that info in other places, such as the tactics chapter.

I would also include info on keywords defined by commonly-loaded plugins in a central section.  Seems to me Ltac is one of those.  SSR?  Not sure.  (Off topic: perhaps we should encourage plugins to limit the number of new keywords they define.)

> Regarding libraries (and the keywords which come with), we could somehow consider the initial state, and in particular the logical concepts `Logic.v` (`/\`, `\/`, `exists`, `=`, ...), basic datatypes `Datatypes` (`list`, `option`, `sum`, `prod`, `nat`, ...) and basic sets `Specifs` (`{ x | P }`, `{ x & P }`, ...) almost as a stable part of the system. So, this part could be documented much earlier than it is now. 

I agree, we should document these better.

> a more scalable approach would simply to provide a command `Print Keywords` which tells what are the keywords defined in the current environment.a more scalable approach would simply to provide a command Print Keywords which tells what are the keywords defined in the current environment.

Yes, good idea.  And make sure we have good commands for showing defined notations, too.

  part of the definition of Gallina::

    Admitted Axiom Axioms Class CoFixpoint CoInductive Conjecture
    Conjectures Constraints Corollary Cumulative Defined Definition
    Example Fact Fixpoint Global Hypotheses Hypothesis Inductive Lemma
    Let Local Monomorphic NonCumulative Parameter Parameters
    Polymorphic Private Proof Property Proposition Record Register Qed
    Remark Structure SubClass Theorem Universe Universes Variable
    Variables Variant

>   They should not be used as keywords in :cmd:`Notation`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

(moved above)

Author: This is an old comment. I don't think we need to forbid them in `Notation` after all (see @SkySkimmer's comment).

>   Note that plugins may define additional keywords when they are loaded.

Reviewer 2: Should this be moved above the previous section?

Author: OK, done, adding a "however" to hopefully make the reading fluent.

> 

Reviewer: Did you remove this header intentionally?  I think it should stay.

Author: To be honest, I did not realize it was the header.

  without using :cmd:`Notation` (omitting 25 specialized tokens that begin with
  ``#int63_``)::

>     ! #[ % & ' ( () ) * + , - ->

Reviewer: Intentional to remove `**`?

Author: As far as I could see, `**` is only used in `intros`, so I moved it to the tactics chapter.

Reviewer: Why move it to the tactics chapter?  Even though this is at the moment in the Gallina chapter, it is the primary discussion of keywords and tokens, etc.  Tactics are always loaded (right?), so moving it splits up the info for no benefit.

I can live with putting things specific to optionally-loaded plugins into their chapters, but I would probably repeat some or all of that info here with some additional description.  Otherwise it's hard to find--you have to know/remember that the tokens and keywords depend on what's loaded and then you have to jump to multiple sections to figure out what list applies to your situation.

BTW, how often do people use the `-nois` option?

Author: I don't think it brings a useful information to mention `**` in the Gallina chapter. Yes, it is defined in the initial state, but in the initial state, you also have `||`, `&&`, `.1`, `.2`, `^`, `~`, `<->`, `++`, `::`, `/\`, `\/`, and if you require `Utf8`, you will have another bunch of keywords, etc., and the list will most probably grow any time you require another library.

I'm not saying that it should be moved to the tactics chapter either actually. Probably, a more scalable approach would simply to provide a command `Print Keywords` which tells what are the keywords defined in the current environment.

Also, I don't desperate that we will have one day a parser so that lexing is done at parsing time and the question of whether `||` is a proper keyword or is just twice `|` does not matter (I already have a propotype for that which needs to be pushed further).

Reviewer 2: > BTW, how often do people use the `-nois` option?

Not so frequently today, but it is no reason to make the doc ignorant of this possibility.

Author: @jfehrle: How did you get the list of keywords? Was it by analyzing the `*.mlg`?

There is otherwise a way to list of keywords from `coqtop.byte`: do `Drop.`, then, under the OCaml toplevel, do `List.iter (fun s -> Printf.printf "%s " s) (CString.Set.elements (CLexer.keywords ()));;`. This will give the list of keywords in the current session.

Without `-nois`, it is:
```
! #[ #float64_abs #float64_add #float64_classify #float64_compare
 #float64_div #float64_eq #float64_frshiftexp #float64_ldshiftexp
 #float64_le #float64_lt #float64_mul #float64_next_down
 #float64_next_up #float64_normfr_mantissa #float64_of_int63
 #float64_opp #float64_sqrt #float64_sub #float64_type #int63_add
 #int63_addc #int63_addcarryc #int63_addmuldiv #int63_compare
 #int63_div #int63_div21 #int63_diveucl #int63_eq #int63_head0 
#int63_land #int63_le #int63_lor #int63_lsl #int63_lsr #int63_lt 
#int63_lxor #int63_mod #int63_mul #int63_mulc #int63_sub #int63_subc 
#int63_subcarryc #int63_tail0 #int63_type
 % & && ' ( () (bfs) (dfs) ) * ** + ++ , - ->
 . .( .. ... / /\ : :: ::= :< := :> :>> ;
 < <+ <- <-> <: <<: <= <> = => > >-> >= ? @ @{ 
Axiom CoFixpoint Definition Fixpoint Hypothesis IF Parameter Prop SProp Set 
Theorem Type Variable 
[ [= \/ ] ^ _ `( `{ 
as at by cofix discriminated else end exists exists2 fix for forall fun if 
in lazymatch let match multimatch return then using where with { {| | |- || } ~ -
```
With `-nois`, it is:
```
! #[ #float64_abs #float64_add #float64_classify #float64_compare 
#float64_div #float64_eq #float64_frshiftexp #float64_ldshiftexp 
#float64_le #float64_lt #float64_mul #float64_next_down 
#float64_next_up #float64_normfr_mantissa #float64_of_int63 
#float64_opp #float64_sqrt #float64_sub #float64_type #int63_add 
#int63_addc #int63_addcarryc #int63_addmuldiv #int63_compare 
#int63_div #int63_div21 #int63_diveucl #int63_eq #int63_head0 
#int63_land #int63_le #int63_lor #int63_lsl #int63_lsr #int63_lt 
#int63_lxor #int63_mod #int63_mul #int63_mulc #int63_sub #int63_subc 
#int63_subcarryc #int63_tail0 #int63_type
 % & ' ( () ) * + , - -> . .( .. / : :< := :> :>> ;
 < <+ <- <: <<: <= = => > >-> ? @ @{ 
Axiom CoFixpoint Definition Fixpoint Hypothesis Parameter Prop SProp Set 
Theorem Type Variable
[ ] _ `( `{ 
as at cofix discriminated else end fix for forall fun
if in let match return then where with { {| | } -
```

Note that none of the `#float` and `#int63` need to be keywords actually.  Do you know the point of adding a `#` to these names? Why not simply `float64_abs`, `float64_add` so that we can a `IDENT` in front of them to remove them from the keyword list?

Reviewer: Yeah, I think I modified the code to print out the same data structure.  I haven't used Drop, I should do that sometime.

You're preaching to the choir :-).  It appears they're only used to set more user-friendly names in PrimFloat.v.  Seems to me changing this probably wouldn't be too disruptive.  And AFAIK the feature is relatively new (last year or so).

Reviewer 3: I don't know what those `#` are for. It seems that we could remove them without issue, see #12122

Reviewer: They're used to identify new-style attributes.  You can grep in the `.mlg` files:

```
  quoted_attributes:
    [ [ "#[" ; a = attribute_list ; "]" -> { a } ]
    ]
  ;
```

Reviewer 2: Pierre was talking about the `#` in primitive tokens.

Reviewer: OK.  If someone gets rid of the `#` then maybe they could also make all of the `#int63*` keywords into identifiers, if that's not too hard.

Reviewer 3: That's precisely the goal of #12122 ;)

    . .( .. ... / : ::= := :> :>> ; < <+ <- <:

>     <<: <= = => > >-> >= ? @ @{ [ ] _

Reviewer: No grammar change in order to remove || as a token?  They still appear in the grammar and I think they're still tokens.

Reviewer 2: Hugo moved the mention of this token to the Ltac chapter. @herbelin Does this mean that `||` is not a token if Ltac isn't loaded (e.g. with `-nois`)?

Author: Yes, `||` is not in the initial state.

Reviewer 2: Then, moving it to the Ltac chapter is the right thing to do.

Reviewer: But also used in SSR, maybe should be mentioned in both.
